---
title: "Ask Mementoes Of Homes Condemned For New School: Residents, Forced To Move Away From Patterson Park To Provide Building Site, Want Steps, Electric Fixtures, Furnaces And Other Keepsakes"
date: 1931-04-29
modified: 2017-04-11
---

“Ask Mementoes Of Homes Condemned For New School: Residents, Forced To Move Away From Patterson Park To Provide Building Site, Want Steps, Electric Fixtures, Furnaces And Other Keepsakes.” *The Sun (1837-1988)*. April 29, 1931. http://search.proquest.com/hnpbaltimoresun/docview/543413489/abstract/68EDF5000643CBPQ/87?accountid=10750.

---

Although residents of Ellwood avenue and Robinson street, adjacent to Patterson Park, must relinquish their homes to make way for the new high school to be erected on the block, some of them have petitioned the Public Improvement Commission for permission to remove mementoes for the houses, it was revealed yesterday, Some of these have been purchased by the commission and condemnation proceedings will be instituted against others.

One resident who has sold his some wants to take the front steps with him. He and his family for years have sat on these steps on summer evenings and watched automobiles passing through the park, children frolicking on the playgrounds and occasional pyrotechnic shows.

Another former home owner has asked permission to take electric fixtures which have illuminated many a gay party, and for which he has a sentimental attachment.

Another, after feeding his furnace each winter morning and banking it at night for many years wants to take it to this new home. Whether he intends to set it up again or keep it as a souvenir he did not say. Herbert J. Limbach, supervising Engineer for the commission, said it is not within his province to grant such requests.

The usual custom he explained, is to engage a salvage company to wreck the buildings. The former owners usually negotiate with the salvage concern for whatever they wish to remove.