---
title: "Slum Clearance Displeases Many"
date: 1938-06-18
modified: 2017-04-03
---

  “Slum Clearance Displeases Many.” *Afro-American (1893-1988); Baltimore, Md.* June 18, 1938. http://search.proquest.com/docview/531169493/abstract/8C3A48BB819649C9PQ/1

<!-- FIXME: This source has not been proofed or corrected -->

---

BALTIMORE While residents in the Northeast and Southwest Baltimore areas; designated for housing projects; expressed thems*?vcs as inclinedl to favor the coming changes, deep-seated rumblings of dissatisfaction came from the Northwest area,. » this week.

This dissatisfaction has been expressed strongly and along '' three lines.	jj

1. That some of the oldest Baltimore home owners have improved residences in the area and have developed sentimental interests in their estates.
2. Some of the professional men j and i.vomen say that it will meanii a loss* which no payment for the!! house can compensate to be com-j] pelled to change the professional jj addresses.
3. There is resentment on the" ground that much of this area is jj not regarded as in a slum section, ii and that areas could have been;; found that needed razing more than most of this area.

**Vent Feelings**

Mrs. Florence Snowden, who11 expressed open objection, told ii the AFRO-AMERICAN that she was deeply hurt by the probabil-ij ity of having to move from her;; home at 1134 Druid Hill Avenue, jj Her mother, she said, had bought that home for the family ,, in October, 190,5. just one year before the big Baltimore fire, and that she had improved it into thejj kind of home she wanted. She" did not want to move.

**No Pay Justified**

 Dr. Jay G. McRae, another resi-:: dent in the 1100 block, stated that no amount the Housing Authority, would pay could make him feel; justified in giving up his home( and place of medical practice.

Dr. McRae stated that in addi-; tion to expensive improvements j in the home, he was thinking of the effect of moving his office and changing his telephone number would have on his work.	"

He also thought that the character of the homes in the block and the many well Improved homes on Etting and Division Streets in the area, took most of this area out of any slum-clearance project.”

“It seems to me.” he said, “that the Housing Authority could have found areas which needed wip-i ing out much more than most of this section.

Others who object to the project of using this area included Dr. j Howard Young, who not only owns a residence at 1100 Druid 'Hill Avenue, but conducts a drug;

; business at the comer of Druid j ; Hill Avenue and Dolphin Street.; Mrs. Robert Clark, who owns! the house at 1130 and Miss Gladysi Fitzgerald, whose family home is;

| a landmark on that street, were ; also among the dissenters.	i

**Is Not Opposed**

Dr. R. G. Chissell. i.vho has acquired property at 1105 j Hill Avenue, is not opposed, as: i are several owners who have in- j | vestment property. It has been; stated that the Housing Authority! is expected to pay an appraisal! value plus ten per cent. But even; if this is done, some of the above: j owners say, this will not compen-j sate for the sentimental value; | of the property and the good will! • invested in their businesses there | Another old and well-known ’ business in the northwest area is j the Johnson Barber Shop, on Dol-j phin near Madison.

No Objections

 Over in the Northeast Baltimore area, except from some of the white store keepers, there seems to be no basic objections.

On the other hand manv renters told the AFRO-AMERICAN reporter that they expected bo

move back into the area just as soon as the projects i.vere finished. , There are, however, no old landmarks or long-owned resi- 1 dences in this area. The highly': improved establishments include stores, filling stations and other business places, most of them operated by whites.

Those familiar with the situa-; tion there declare that the wiping1 out of the numerous shacks and! the improvement of the community in the neighborhood of the new high school, the present new-elementary school on Caroline and j the plant that will be turned over! to colored pupils at Orleans and Aisquith Streets, will be a good thing.

**Includes White Church**

In the southwest area, bounded by Lexington, Fremont, Saratoga and Amity, there are fe.v old landmarks. One large white church, the St. Paul Evangelical Lutheran, at Saratoga and Fremont, will probably have to go. or be turned over to a colored congregation.

The Watkins and Wells Printing * Company at 816 W. Lexington i Street, which has done business 1 there for eighteen years, is one > of the old establishments in the 1 area.	<

There is also the Hebron Missionary Baptist Church at 907 ' W. Saratoga Street, of which the i Rev. M. T. Flowers is pastor. The 1 comer stone laid in this church * in 1926 carries the name of the 1 Rev. Ernest Williams.	,1

...

------

*Text copyright The Baltimore Sun courtesy the ProQuest Historical Newspaper Database via Enoch Pratt Free Library.*